hi guys so today i'm going to be doing a
video on incremental writing
and incremental writing was an idea that
was first developed by george sornios
and piotr wars yak sort of in
collaboration with each other
while the term incremental writing was
developed in the context of supernova
there are a ton of systems for example
settle cast and evergreen notes
roman obsidian to implement very very
similar workflows
and today i'm actually gonna be showing
you a plugin i wrote for obsidian
that implements a sort of supernova
style of incremental writing
in obsidian so before we get into the
details about
incremental writing i strongly recommend
that you go and watch my video on
incremental reading because i really see
incremental writing as the opposite
of incremental reading i really think
that they exist as part of the same
cycle of creation and destruction which
i will explain
later in this video so to briefly
summarize the difference between
incremental reading and incremental
writing
when i do incremental reading i sort of
think of myself
as a knowledge goblin miner with a
pickaxe and i'm chipping away at books
and articles
looking for the golden nuggets that i
can refine into flashcards
and maintain over time with space
repetition incremental writing can be
thought of as the opposite process
rather than a knowledge coupling minor
i'm a knowledge goblin blacksmith
i'm taking the nuggets that i found when
i was mining and throwing them into the
forge
where they will get blended and mixed
together in new combinations
and gradually they'll sort of combine
and blend back together into a
comprehensive whole
a solid gold bar of an article that i
can publish into the world
so i'm going to stop talking about
goblins now and give you some actual
concrete examples
of how incremental reading and
incremental writing combine
to form this cycle of destruction and
creation that i mentioned earlier
i'm going to give you sort of a recipe
for incremental writing
with some examples in obsidian and
supernova
so the first step in the recipe for
incremental writing is going to be one
of destruction
and this is going to include importing
material
prioritizing it and using incremental
reading
to split up articles and books into
extracts
and flashcards that you can review
incrementally over time
with space repetition for the
demonstration i'm going to be using
super memory because it's probably the
number one
program for incremental reading right
now
so here what you can see me doing is
just importing
all of the material that i want to take
extracts from
into my collection and
immediately after importing the next
step that i always do
is to prioritize each element
so that when i see my queue of elements
every day
i start with the elements that are most
important to me that have the highest
priority
that contain the most valuable
information and that means that even if
i don't have enough time to finish
all of the elements in my queue every
single day then i at least know that i
spent my limited attention on those
elements that are most important to me
that i'm most likely to find valuable
golden nuggets in
each time i take an extract what i'm
doing is
i'm adding that into my learning cue as
an independent piece of information
not connected to the parent article at
all that means that
it's allowed to float freely to be mixed
in with the sum of my knowledge
in my entire collection
here you can see me adding priorities to
the extracts as well
so having extracted them from the parent
article i've recognized that they
may have a different priority to the
parent article itself they may contain
either
more valuable or less valuable
information than the parent article
so i want to prioritize it to reflect
that
so at this point i've recognized that
there are some similarities between
the extracts that i've taken from the
parent articles and so
i move them under one folder so that i
can group them together
and start making connections between the
ideas contained within each extract
some of the extracts contain what i
consider to be highly applicable and
generalizable information that i want to
maintain over time so i encode that
information as
flashcards
you should bear in mind that this is a
really condensed view of the process you
wouldn't do all of this in one session
this could be taking place over months
or even years
possibly
finally you can think of the destruction
the incremental reading part of the
process as
the ascending part of the process
because the number of
individual pieces of information grows
it sort of expands um up until the point
where you start
transitioning from incremental reading
into incremental writing
once you transition into the incremental
writing phase what you'll
find is that you'll start grouping these
smaller pieces of text into larger and
larger pieces of text so
sentences into paragraphs paragraphs
into chapters and so on
and so the number of individual pieces
of information will
begin to decrease and so it becomes the
descending part of the process
so the second stage in the recipe is one
of creation
and this is going to involve you taking
the extracts that you made during
incremental reading
and grouping them based on the
similarities that you recognize between
them
you're also going to be creatively
elaborating on your own ideas
incrementally over time so for the
concrete demonstration
i'm going to be using obsidian because i
found it to be extremely convenient for
writing
and it really integrates well with the
wiki software that i use to publish my
articles
i also recently wrote a plugin to do
incremental writing
in obsidian in sort of the super memo
style
which i'm going to show you in this
demonstration
okay so here what you're seeing is all
of the commands available
in the incremental writing plugin at the
moment so you can add blocks to your
queue
you can add notes to your queue you can
load the current repetition
go to the next repetition and so on and
so what i'm going to do
immediately is add something to the
queue so that you can actually see what
the queue looks like and
what information is contained within it
so here i'm setting the priority on the
note i'm adding to my incremental
writing queue
so this is the incremental writing queue
in obsidian
and um it's literally just a markdown
table
that you can edit if you wish and you
can also view it in
preview mode and it makes it look pretty
the a-factor and the interval just
control the
spacing of the item you've added to your
incremental writing queue
over time and the last repetition
represents the last repetition date
so what you can see me doing here is
just adding
each of the extracts that i created in
supermemo
to my incremental writing queue in
obsidian adding priorities
how important these sections are to the
article that i want to write and like i
said it is possible to also add blocks
individual blocks of text within note
to your incremental writing queue if you
just want to focus on a single block
and like i said in the incremental
reading section
the reason we prioritize our notes and
blocks
is that we want our time to be spent on
those things that are most valuable to
us so
even if we don't have time to finish our
entire queue
of incremental writing
at least you know that you spent your
time on those things that are most
important to you
so now you can see that i've filled out
my queue and i'm ready to
start going through it so i loaded the
current repetition
and i start off simply by refactoring it
a little bit into my own words
um making a little bit clearer more
concise
and now you can see me just elaborating
on the ideas that were already contained
within the extract so i'm adding my own
thoughts
adding something that wasn't already
there
and here you can see the cue and you can
see the effect
that pressing next repetition has on the
last repetition date and you can see
that the interval has been
updated to 2 so i've just multiplied the
old interval 1
by the a factor 2 to get the new
interval 2.
so i'll see this extract again
in two days
one important part about incremental
writing is that you only write
up until the point where you start to
lose interest
incremental writing is a non-linear form
of writing so you don't have to
persist stubbornly through displeasure
and
misery as if you're writing an essay at
university or something
you can simply write for as long as you
want and then hit next repetition
and you'll be teleported to the next
thing in your queue
so one of the major complaints that
learners have when using a space
repetition system or incremental reading
is that breaking things down into atomic
parts can cause them to lose the bigger
picture
but to the extent this is actually the
case i believe it's a good thing
because in order to create new concepts
our novel concepts and to generate ideas
with a new quality
you must first destructively decompose
the old articles and concepts into their
underlying parts
and then recombine them into those new
articles and concepts
so once you've finished an article
you'll want to publish it into the real
world
for example on your blog or even on
twitter
or in a journal if you're a researcher
once you've published it
you can receive feedback from people in
the real world who read what you wrote
and then having received feedback you
can take the feedback
and the article and you can recycle it
back into your incremental reading queue
that means you can take the article that
you wrote and
break it back down into its parts and
interleave it with all of the other
knowledge in your collection to continue
to creatively develop your ideas
over time hopefully it's clearer now how
the two processes
of incremental reading and incremental
writing are entwined in a cycle of
destruction and creation incremental
reading is destructive
in the sense that you are separating
extracts from the parent article
and leaving them to float around in the
sea of anarchy of your learning cube
by contrast incremental writing is
creative or constructive
in the sense that you're taking those
extracts that you created in incremental
reading
and combining them back together into a
new article
so finally i'm going to sum up the
advantages and disadvantages of
incremental writing
the primary advantage for me of
incremental writing is that it really
supports creative writing
when you recombine the extracts from
your
incremental reading queue you aren't
reassembling them
like a jigsaw puzzle back into the
parent articles of those
extracts rather you're combining them in
new combinations
creating an entirely new quality
incremental writing also really supports
the process of
creative elaboration incremental writing
achieves this by spacing your writing
sessions
over long periods of time allowing you
to consolidate your memories
about a given subject and create new
generalizations and ideas
that you can add to your old writing
when you come back to it because you're
primarily dealing with paragraph sized
chunks
it becomes extremely easy to remix and
recombine your old ideas into new
articles
finally incremental writing maximizes
the enjoyment
and pleasure of writing because it's a
non-linear form of writing
you aren't forcing yourself to sit and
write about some topic
even when you don't want to you simply
write as much as you
film like you can and then you move on
to the next piece of writing
in your queue finally let's talk about
the disadvantages of incremental writing
for me there's really only one major
disadvantage and that's if you need to
write for a deadline
incremental writing takes place over a
very long period of time and it might
not be suitable if you
face a deadline within the next month
okay so that's going to be it for today
guys
thanks for watching and remember to
follow me on twitter if you have any
feedback
tweet at experia learning and there'll
also be links in the description
to an article version of this
presentation and also to the plugin that
i wrote for obsidian
so yeah i'll see you in the next video